
NAME
    windict - A DECtalk Software dictionary building tool.

USAGE 
    windict [-h]
          -h        This help message

DESCRIPTION
    windict is an user dictionary building tool. User dictionaries 
    created with windict are used by DECtalk Software.  It is used 
    to create special dictionary files of words to which you have 
    changed the pronunciation. Dictionary work files are compiled 
    into dictionaries in windict and can then be loaded into DECtalk 
    Software applets. 

    The syntax is (coffee [t'iy]) a word or letter string to be 
    pronounced (called a grapheme string followed by a phoneme string. 
    A line can have up to 256 characters.

    A grapheme (letter) string is comprised of legal graphemes. Legal 
    graphemes are: a-z, 0-9 and select punctuation marks (", !, @, &, (, 
    ), -, \, and /).  These characters cannot be used at the beginning of
    the grapheme string. Uppercase letters match only uppercase; lowercase 
    letters match either uppercase or lowercase.

    The phoneme string is made up of legal phonemes.  Phonemes are always 
    in square brackets but may be in either uppercase or lowercase. For 
    example, to make the word coffee be pronounced tea, enter the following:

              coffee  [t'iy]

    If you want the dictionary just created to become your default user 
    dictionary, copy it into your top-level login directory and rename it 
    user.dic. Every time you run speak, it will automatically load user.dic 
    as the default user dictionary.

    Dictionary files other than user.dic have no name or location restrictions 
    other than those of your operating system. These files can be loaded 
    whenever you want to use them. 

RESTRICTIONS
    An entry must start at the first character of the line.  Starting on any 
    character other than the first makes the line a comment, and it will, 
    therefore, not be processed.

    Input files have the default extension of .tab but can be any legal 
    alphanumeric. Output dictionary files have the extension of .dic and must 
    have that extension for the loader to find the file correctly. If no 
    output file is specified, a file with the same name and .dic 
    extension is created for the output.

    Assume that DECtalk Software pronounces all words, even the most 
    difficult ones correctly. Unknown words are searched in the order in 
    which they are loaded.

SEE ALSO
   dectalk

RELATED INFORMATION
    DECtalk Software for Digital UNIX Getting Started Guide
~
