				APPENDIX4.TXT
		PREVIOUS REVISIONS OF DECTALK[R] SOFTWARE
				October `15, 2003



What's new in version 4.62 R002?

-Installation tested on Windowsw XP.

-Reduced footprint sizes for all platforms.

-Unified phoneme set for all supported languages, allowing you to
 specify phonemes from different languages within the context of your
 current language.

-Support for Version 5.0 of the Microsoft Speech API (SAPI) on Windows
 98, Windows ME, Windows NT, and Windows 2000 platforms.  Installation
 of SAP Version 5.0 support is optional.

-Beta support for the French language.

-Supplemental foreign-language dictionary for German, allowing you to
 include foreign phrases in German speech.

-Addition of a Hebrew complement phoneme set which allows the user to do TTS in the Hebrew language.

-Windows, Windows CE, and Linux SDKs combined on one CD-ROM.

-Windows and Windows CE installations now use InstallShield 6.2 for
 easier, more flexible kit installation, customizing, and maintenance.

-Manual and online help updates.

-Removed APPENDIX1.txt (list of the files being installed).

-Windows SDK changes include:
     Envpatch:
       The application was removed and replaced by InstallShield.
     Windic:
       Fixed language menu to check current language in Multi-language
       mode.
     Dtsample:
       Fixed check marks for the menu of speak, voice, rate,
       languages.

-Windows CE SDK changes include:
     Mailread:
       Added a Windows CE Email reader sample for Windows CE 3.00
       Pocket PC.
     Dtsample:
       Fixed missing menu for x86em.


CAUTIONS:

-For Windows, Static Access32:  The developer MUST include the
 Microsoft library WINMM.LIB in the link process.

-Improper use of the Log in-line command may appear to hang the
 engine.  See the Log command description in the DECtalk Software
 Reference Guide for proper use guidelines.

-Dictionaries of one language can be loaded into engines of another.
 However, if you use this feature, you must carefully manage the
 adding and removing of dictionaries to avoid confusion over
 dictionary naming, identity, and associations.


  DECtalk Software version 4.60: 
	Additional Windows CE platform Support WinCE 211/SH4,MIPS
	Linux/Security on SARM, Intel
	Doc/HTML/man/help updates
	Windows CE Email reader sample 
	Voice enhancments
	Full Access32 Windows CE Support
	Vocal enhancment in the German Language
	Windows CE Windic application include so user can create own user 
		dictionary on the device Win 211 support only

	Reduced size dictionaries included for English, UK, and German
	Windows 2000 tested
	

        Installation Tested on Windows 98. 
        Disabled License Error Pop-up Window From DAPI Engine. 
        Significantly Increased SAPI Compliance; see APPENDIX3.TXT. 
        Enhanced Spanish Latin American and Spanish Castillian.
        A static version of WINDIC .exe for the WINDOWS host to support a user
        	defined dictionary, and Full registry support. 

        Many Bugs Fixed, Including:
             Various Application or System Hangs or Crashes Caused by 
             Data Path, Syncronization and Dictionary Failures Corrected.
             Memory Leaks Corrected.
             User Dictionary Compiler Failures Corrected.
	     Registry entries fixed for Windows CE user dictinary

	     windows:
	     	Envpatch:
		It can now change the default language if in multi language already
	     	
		windic:
                Fixed language menu to check current language in Multi language
		
		dtsample:
                Fixed check marks for the menu of speak, voice, rate, languages 

	     windows CE:
                dtsample:
                Fixed check marks for the menu of speak, voice, rate, languages 


  DECtalk Software version 4.51: 
        Dictionary Memory Leak Fixed. 
        Dictionary Will No Longer Unload Prematurely. 
        Fixed DAPI Engine Crash With Page Fault and Exception. 
        Applications No Longer Hang on CallBack. 
        SAPI Fixes; Including AudioStop Now Working As Documented. 
        Install now DELETES pre-existing, duplicate files.
        German language now supported.

  DECtalk Software version 4.50:
     *  Distributed on CD-Rom. 
     *  All available languages are contained on one media.	
     *  Year 2000 changes.	
     *  Added SAPI features. 
     *  English_UK language added.	
     *  Sample programs Speak and dtsample, updated to Multi-Language
        functionality.	
     *  O L E mark syntax (\mrk=\ tag), now working.  
     *  User dictionary compiler now handles accent characters (extended
        ascii).	
     *  O L E notification support, AudioStart and AudioStop now returned.	

DECtalk Software version 4.41:        
     *  SAPI/ O L E TAG stripping support added.   
     *  Multi-Language "hot swap" capability available (special order). 
     *  API calls unified for single or multi-language support.	
     *  Support for UNIX version 3.2 or 4.0.    

  DECtalk Software version 4.4:
     *  Available in more languages; English, Castilian
       	Spanish and Latin-American Spanish.	
     *  A new, intelligent rule-based pre-processor, specifically a new 
	e-mail in-line command.  This command will only voice the date,
        sender, recipient and subject of an e-mail header, skip all of e-mail
        footers and will expand abbreviations, correctly voice acronyms
        and emoticons.	
     *  DECtalk.lib has been placed in \Program Files\DECtalk\{language}, where
        {language} is one of: u s for American English, s p for Castillian Spanish,
        l a for Latin-American Spanish. 
     *  TTSAPI.H has been placed in  \Program Files\DECtalk\include.	
     *  The SPEAK.EXE demonstration program now shows highlighting.	
     *  Help file for sample programs has been re-written to latest funtionality.	
     *  Documentation has been re-written to latest functionality.	
     *  Major bug fixes:	
	- Fixed reset function.	
	- The 8khz, 16bit, mono output is now supported.	
	- Licensing startup and shutdown ambiguity resolved.	
	- In-line sync command now working as documented.	
	- Win dic, user dictionary, compiles correctly. 

  DECtalk Software version 4.3:	
     *  Support of the Microsoft Speech API.	
     *  Multiple instances of the Speech object in a single process.	
     *  O L E integrated DECtalk speech engine. A separate DLL, 
	DTLKTTSE.DLL is installed during the installation of DECtalk software.	
     *  Intel support of Windows 95/Windows NT and Alpha support of 
	Windows NT.	

 copyright (c) 2002-2003 FONIX Corporation All rights reserved.
 copyright (c) 2000-2001 FORCE Computers Inc. All rights reserved.	
 (c) 1999 SMART Modular Technologies. All rights reserved.
 (c) 1999 Digital Equipment Corporation. All rights reserved.	 
 [R] Microsoft, Windows NT, Windows 95, Windows 98 and Windows CE are 
 registered trademarks of Microsoft Corporation.	
 [R] PostScript is a registered trademark of Adobe Systems, Inc.
 [TM]Intel is a trademark of Intel Corporation.	
 [TM]The Digital Logo, Alpha, DEC, and Digital are 
 trademarks of Digital Equipment Corporation.	
 [R] DECtalk and SMART	are trademarks OF FORCE Computers Inc.
