DECtalk Express   Speech Synthesizer.

Digital's   high  quality  DECtalk  text-to-speech  synthesis
technology  is  now  available in an  external  and  portable
product.  The DECtalk Express Speech Synthesizer can be  used
with  a  variety  of  "screen access"  software  applications
designed  for use by individuals who are blind  or  have  low
vision, or individuals who have learning disabilities.   When
used  in  conjunction with an application of  this  type,  it
allows  users  to  hear both keyed input  as  well  as  other
material displayed on the monitor screen by converting  ASCII
text  to  natural-sounding speech output.   The  serial  port
allows  for use with a personal computer (IBM or compatible),
laptop, notebook, palmtop, workstation and Apple or Macintosh
computer.

Major features of the DECtalk Express Speech Synthesizer
include:

Portable.
	  	Small, lightweight  and  battery-powered for
  	    	enhanced mobility, with carrying case and  other
            	accessories that facilitate transportation.

Compatible.
	 	Supported  by  a range of software  applications
            	designed  for  use by people with  disabilities.
            	Serial   communication  port  interface   allows
            	connection  to  a  wide  range  of  desktop  and
            	portable  personal computers (PCs)  as  well  as
            	PDAs,   Apple   and  Macintosh   computers   and
            	workstations.

Personal.
	  	Headphones included for private listening.
  
Accessible.
	 	Braille  labeling, audiotape  and  braille  user
            	information,  along  with  jack  differentiation
            	allow  for easy orientation and access for users
            	who are blind or have low vision.

User Control.   
	  	Combined  On/Off and Volume controls  allow  the
		user to select volume of choice.

Supporting software applications can take advantage of the
major features of the DECtalk speech synthesis technology,
including:

Nine Pre-defined Voices.      
			Four  male, four female  and  one
     			child voice offer a wide selection.

Speaking Rates of 75 to 650 Words per Minute.
			Allows for use from slow spelling to fast scanning.

Comprehensive Pronunciation Rules and Controls. 
	       	Provides for enhanced naturalness and accuracy of
		spoken text,including  proper names  and words that 
		are spelled alike but spoken differently.

Speech Options.
 			Users  can  elect  to  have  text
                        spoken  by letter, word or phrase
                        and  to  have "some,"  "none"  or
                        "all" punctuation pronounced.

Unlimited Vocabulary.
		 	Comprehensive pronunciation
                      	rules allow for pronunciation of any text.

Word-by-Word Indexing.
			Allows for a direct match
                       	between screen viewing and spoken text.


DECtalk Express Speech Synthesizer Specifications.

Programming Interface: a. DOS Terminate and Stay Resident
                	  (TSR) driver
                          (DECtalk PC Speech Synthesizer
                          compatibility mode.)
                       b. Direct applications control via a
                          communications port.

System Interface:     RS232/423 serial (no Telephone Line
                      Interface).

System Requirements:  25KB memory (TSR) for DOS.

Communication Setup:  9600 baud, 8 bits per character, no
                      parity, 1 stop bit.

Speaker:              Internal, 2" diameter.

Inputs:               Text, phonemes and speech control
                      commands.

Audio Output:         1/8" stereo headphone jack, > 16ohms
                      impedance, 300mW maximum.

Controls:             Combined On/Off and Volume.

Power:                Integral battery pack and a 115VAC.
                      60Hz external power wall cube.

Charge Time:          4 hour maximum.

Speaking Time:        4 hour minimum (continuous speech).

Physical Dimensions:  3.6"wide x 7.6" long x 1.3" high;
                      weight 15 ounces.

Accessories Include:  Carrying case, detachable accessory
	              pouch, headphones, 9-pin RS232
                      connector, 2' cable, external power
                      wall cube.

Warranty:             One year return-to-factory.
                      
Ordering Information,

Product Name:         DECtalk Express Speech Synthesizer

Model Number:         DTC08-AA

Order Phone:          603-884-9317
                      
Order FAX:            800-555-332-

Mail:                 Digital Equipment Corporation
                      1 Digital Dr.  MKO1-2/H8
		      Merrimack, NH 03054
		      C/O Ray Theil
                      
Pre-purchase          
Technical
Assistance:	      800-354-9000, option 4 then 7.

Price:                $1195


