Revised: 09-FEB-1996

				LICensee KIT disk (LICKIT)
				

You have been licensed to receive the files contained on this disk. These
files are presented to you in a flat directory structure. The files are
provided to allow you to "port" the source code to your specific application
hardware and software environment. Information regarding the grouping of
files, build actions and options are contianed in the environment files
provided.

LICKITs are provided in several variants. These are based on the specific
Digital Signal Processor (DSP) and other implementation features and
DECtalk(tm) product options that may be available, as chosen by you for
your application.

The porting task is an effort to use non-trade secret source files to
compile and link targets that can verify the integrety of system function
calls in your specific hardware and software environment. For example,
by building CMD.EXE and USA.EXE you will know that our call to the
system function PRINTF will work with your system software. This reduces
significantly the number of functions that must be adjusted in the trade
secret code that will be ported later under specific licensed restrictions.

A number of environment files are provided. These files are specific to
the Microsoft(r) Visual C++(tm), Professional Edition, Development System
For Windows(tm), environment used at Digital Equipment Corporation in the
DECtalk (tm) Group. No claim is made regarding the direct usability of these
files in your environment, regardless of any appearances of such. These
files are intended to be used indirectly as guides for porting the
DECtalk(tm) files provided. These environment files are:

	DTPCMACR.MAK
	
This file contains the definitions identifing which files are to be
compiled, included and linked to produce a particular target.

	DTPCCJLT.MAK

This file carries out global environment actions. These actions include
the creation of dependencies upon included files and the verification that
all files are up-to-date.

	DTPCCJL1.MAK
	
This file directs the actions that compile and link all source files into
the target objects. Options for each compile and link are indicated.

	WSR.MAK
	
This file is for the building of the WSR.EXE target.

To unzip the file LICKIT.ZIP please use the -d option.  

        PKUNZIP.EXE -D LICKIT.ZIP

This will keep all files and any directories intact.

Authored By:
				Carl Leeber
				Digital Equipment Corporation
				200 Forest Street
				Mail/Stop: MRO1-1/K31
				Marlborough, Massachusetts 01752
				(508) 467-3829
