                              DECtalk PC
                      TEXT-TO-SPEECH Synthesizer.
                      TECHNICAL REFERENCE  MANUAL.

3rd Edition,  August 1993.
Copyright c 1993 by Digital Equipment Corporation.
All Rights Reserved.
Printed in U.S.A.

The  reproduction  of this material, in part or  whole,  is  strictly
prohibited.  For  copy information, contact the Assistive  Technology
Group, Digital Equipment Corporation, Maynard, Massachusetts  01754
The information in this document is subject to change without notice.
Digital  Equipment  Corporation assumes  no  responsibility  for  any
errors that may appear in this document.

This equipment generates, uses, and may emit radio frequency  energy.
The  equipment  has  been type tested and found to  comply  with  the
limits  for  a Class B computing device pursuant to Part  15  of  FCC
Rules,  which  are designed to provide reasonable protection  against
such  radio  frequency  interference when operated  in  a  commercial
environment.  Operation of this equipment in a residential  area  may
cause interference, in which case the user, at his own expense,  will
be required to take measures to correct the interference.

Touch-Tone  and  AT&T  are  trademarks  of  American  Telephone   and
Telegraph Company.

IBM and PC are trademarks of International Business Machines, Inc.

The  following  are  trademarks  of  Digital  Equipment  Corporation,
Maynard, Massachusetts.

The Digital logo, DECtalk and DECUS

FCC COMPLIANCE.
FCC id: DTCO7.
    This  device  complies  with  Part  15  of  the  FCC  Rules.
    Operation is subject to the following conditions:  (1)  this
    device  may  not cause harmful interference,  and  (2)  this
    device  must  accept  any interference  received,  including
    interference that may cause undesired operation.

This  equipment has been tested and found to comply with  the  limits
for  a  Class B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC rules.
These  limits  are designed to provide reasonable protection  against
such  radio  frequency interference.  Any modification  that  is  not
expressly  approved  by  Digital may void  the  user's  authority  to
operate  this equipment. The speaker interconnect cable  as  supplied
with the DTC07 interface card may not be substituted, nor altered  or
modified in any way.

This  equipment  generates, uses and can emit radio frequency  energy
and,  if  not installed and used in accordance with the instructions,
may  cause  harmful  interference to radio  communications.  However,
there  is  no  guarantee  that  interference  will  not  occur  in  a
particular installation. If this equipment does cause interference to
radio  or  television  reception, the user is encouraged  to  try  to
correct the interference by one or more of the following measures:

Orient or relocate the receiving antenna.

Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.

Connect the equipment to an outlet on a circuit different from
   that to which the receiver is connected.

Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/television technician
   for additional suggestions.

The  user  may find the booklet How to Identify and Resolve  Radio/TV
Interference   Problems   prepared  by  the  Federal   Communications
Commission helpful. The booklet is available from the U.S. Government
Printing Office, Washington, DC  20402. Stock No. 004-000-00398-5

CAUTION - ELECTRIC SHOCK AND FIRE HAZARD:
In  order  to minimize the risk of a fire, this module is constructed
from a UL Recognized Component Printed Circuit Board. However, it  is
not  to  be  operated as a stand-alone product. It is to  be  mounted
within  a  UL Listed, CSA Certified product that provides it  with  a
full fire enclosure.
In order to minimize the risk of electric shock, this module is to be
powered  from  a power supply output that is provided  with  Overload
Protection  and  supplies Safety Extra Low Voltage  (<60  Vdc  or  30
Vrms).

Note:  All  Personal Computers sold by Digital Equipment  Corporation
meet these requirements.
Warning: Discharges of static electricity (ESD) can damage sensitive
computer components. Do not remove the device from its protective
packaging until actual installation.

