			  DECtalk PC2
                   TEXT-TO-SPEECH SYNTHESIZER.
                           USER GUIDE.
 
1st Edition, January 1996.
Copyright 1996 by Digital Equipment Corporation.

All Rights Reserved.
Printed in USA.

The reproduction of this material, in part or whole, is strictly
prohibited. For copy information, contact the Assistive Technology
Group, Digital Equipment Corporation, 200 Forest St. Marlboro, 
Massachusetts  01752. The information in this document is subject to 
change without notice and should not be construed as a commitment by 
Digital Equipment Corporation. Digital Equipment Corporation assumes 
no responsibility for any errors that may appear in this document.

The software described in this document is furnished under a license
and may be used or copied only in accordance with the terms of such
license. No responsibility is assumed for the use or reliability of
software on equipment that is not supplied by Digital Equipment
Corporation or its affiliated companies.
Digital logo, DEC, and DECtalk are  trademarks of Digital Equipment
Corporation.

IBM and Personal Computer AT  are registered trademarks of
International Business Machines, Inc.
SoundBlaster is a registered trademark of Creative Labs, Inc.
MS-DOS is a registered trademark of Microsoft Corporation
AEB is a registered trademark of Dialogic Corporation

The installation program used to install DECtalk PC2, INSTALL, is
licensed software provided by Knowledge Dynamics Corp., P.O. Box 1558,
Canyon Lake, Texas 78130-1558 (USA). INSTALL is Copyright c 1987-1991
by Knowledge Dynamics Corp. which reserves all copyright protection
worldwide. INSTALL is provided to you for the exclusive purpose of
installing DECtalk PC. Digital Equipment Corporation is exclusively
responsible for the support of DECtalk PC, including support during
the installation phase. In no event will Knowledge Dynamics Corp. be
able  to provide any technical support for DECtalk PC2.


FCC COMPLIANCE.
FCC ID A09-DTC7B.
This device complies with Part 15 of the FCC Rules. Operation is
subject to the following conditions: (1) this device may not
cause harmful interference, and (2) this device must accept any
interference received, including interference that may cause
undesired operation.

This equipment has been tested and found to comply with the limits for
a Class B digital device, pursuant to Part 15 of the FCC rules.  These
limits are designed to provide reasonable protection against such
radio frequency interference.  Any modification that is not expressly
approved by Digital  may void the user's authority to operate this
equipment. The speaker interconnect cable as supplied with the DTC07
interface card may not be substituted, nor altered or modified in any
way.

This equipment generates, uses and can emit radio frequency energy
and, if not installed and used in accordance with the instructions,
may cause harmful interference to radio communications. However, there
is no guarantee that interference will not occur in a particular
installation. If this equipment does cause interference to radio or
television reception, the user is encouraged to try to correct the
interference by one or more of the following measures:

Reorient or relocate the receiving antenna.
Increase the separation between the equipment and receiver.
Connect the equipment into an outlet on a circuit different from
that to which the receiver is connected.
Consult the dealer or an experienced radio/television technician for
additional suggestions.

The user may find the booklet  "How to Identify and Resolve Radio/TV
Interference Problems" prepared by the Federal Communications
Commission helpful. The booklet is available from the U.S. Government
Printing Office, Washington, DC  20402, Stock No. 004-000-00398-5.

CAUTION - ELECTRIC SHOCK AND FIRE HAZARD:
In order to minimize the risk of a fire, this module is constructed
from a UL Recognized Component Printed Circuit Board. However, it  is
not to be operated as a stand-alone product. It is to be mounted
within a UL Listed, CSA Certified product that provides it with a full
fire enclosure.

In order to minimize the risk of electric shock, this module is to be
powered from a power supply output that is provided with Overload
Protection and supplies Safety Extra Low Voltage (less than 60 Volts
DC or 30 volts rms).

Note: All Personal Computers sold by Digital Equipment Corporation
meet these requirements.

Warning: Discharges of static electricity (ESD) can damage sensitive
electronic components. Do not remove the module from its protective
packaging until actual installation.

                                
CONTENTS.

SECTION 1. Installation, 1.
 Introduction, 1.
 Upgrades, 1.
 Before You Begin, 1.
 Checking the Parts, 1.
 The DECtalk PC2 Card, 2.
  Physical Layout, 3.
 External Speaker: 4.
 Installing the DECtalk PC Card, 4.
  Tools Needed, 4.
  Installing the DECtalk PC card, 5.
 Installing DECtalk PC Software. 6.
  SELECTING STANDARD OR CUSTOM INSTALLATION 7.
  STANDARD INSTALLATION. 7.
  CUSTOM INSTALLATION, 7.
 DT DEMO, 8.
 README File, 8.
 Using DECtalk PC, 9
 Default COM and LPT port trapping. 9.

Section 2.  Using DECtalk PC2. 11.
  Third-party applications. 11.
  Using DOS Commands. 11.
  Copying to a Com Port. 11.
  Printing to an LPT Parallel Printer Port, 13.
  Using a Terminal Emulator. 13.
  Using a Word Processor. 13.
  Using Digitized Sound Files, 13.
  Using Headphones, 14.
  Using External Stereo Speakers, 14.
  Analog Expansion Bus (AEB), 14.
  Modifying DECtalk Parameters, 14.
 Product Support, 16.
  Product Warranty, 16.
  Bulletin Board Service (BBS), 16.
  Post-Sales Support. 16.
  Customer Returns, 16.
 Application Development, 17.
  DTDEMO, 17
 Assistive Technology Reseller, 17.

SECTION 3. Configuration, 19.
 Factory Defaults, 19.
 Startup Problems, 19.
  Devices No Longer Operate, 20.
  DECtalk Start-up, 20.
  DIP-Switch Pack, 20.
  dt_load, 21.
  TABLE 1. -  DEFAULT SETTINGS, I/O Address 250, 22.
  Table 2.- IO Address Switch Settings, 22.
  Table 2 - IO Address Switch Settings (cont.), 23.
  CHECKING BOARD FUNCTION, 23.
 Customization of the startup message, 24.
 Default Communications and Printer Ports: 24.

SECTION 4. Owner's Information, 27.
 The DECtalk PC2, 27.
 DECtalk PC Board Description, 28.
 Hardware Requirements: 28.
 Software Requirements: 28.
 Distribution Media: 28.
 Operating System Requirements: 28.
 Physical: 28.
 Power Supply Requirements: 29.
 Memory: 29.
 Ordering Information: 29.
 Software Licensing: 29.
 Post-Sales Support. 29.
 Product Warranty: 30.
 Customer Returns 30.

End of Contents.
                                
                            SECTION 1.
                          Installation.
Introduction.
This guide provides installation and user information about the
DECtalk PC2 for general use and for use with screen-reading and
other third party application software. To make reading easier,
this manual uses the term DECtalk when describing the system and
system performance. Also since many users of DECtalk PC may be
visually-impaired,  descriptions are given of the size and shape
of the  board or  certain other system components. The purpose of
this manual is to assist you in installing and using your DECtalk
PC2. It is not meant as a technical reference manual. For
technical details on DECtalk PC2, the DECtalk PC2 Technical
Reference Manual is available for software developers for
downloading from the DECtalk BBS, file name REF_MAN.ZIP, 508-
467-3806 or by writing to Digital Equipment Corporation, DECtalk
Technical Reference Manual, 200 Forest Street,   MRO1-1/L31,
Marlboro, MA  01752.

Upgrades.
If you already have an operational DECtalk PC and you are only
upgrading your DECtalk PC with a new version of the software,
consult the file UPGRADE.TXT for upgrade instructions.

Before You Begin.
Do not begin this installation unless:

     1.  You can install an option board in your personal
         computer.
     2.  You know how to configure options installed in
         your computer.
     3.  You know how to use basic DOS commands and to edit
         files.
         
         
Checking the Parts.
The DECtalk PC2 board and related parts are shipped to you in a
cardboard box. The following is a list of components which are
shipped with the DECtalk PC2 product. Check the components you
have received against this list.



(1.)	DECtalk PC2 speech synthesizer board in an anti-       
       	static envelope. (Part  Number 54-24305).
(2.)    External Loudspeaker. (Part Number 70-29613)           
(3.)    Installation Manual. You are now reading this          
        manual.
(4.)    One 1.4 megabyte 3 and 1/2 inch diskette which         
        contains the software to load into the DECtalk         
        PC as well as related documentation such as an
        ASCII text file of this User Guide.
         
(5.)    One Audio cassette which is a spoken version of       
        the Installation Section of the User Guide. The
        voices on the cassette are those of DECtalk PC.
(6.)    Getting Started Reference Card in Braille as           
        well as regular print. This is a checklist of          
        the parts contained in the shipping container.
         
(7.)    Warranty Registration Card. Please  fill out and       
        return this pre-addressed registration card. It        
        will allow us to notify you of any upgrades or         
        changes.
         
         
Please check the contents of your kit carefully. If any of the
above items are missing, call the Digital distributor from whom
you purchased this product.

The DECtalk PC2 Card.
     Your DECtalk PC2 is an 8 bit option card which works with
IBM PC and 100% compatible computers. The board operates on an
ISA or EISA bus.

Note: DECtalk PC2 does not support the Micro Channel (MCA) or PCI
buses.

  
  Physical Layout.
The DECtalk PC2 board is approximately 4 inches wide by 8.5 inches
long.  With the front (component) side facing up, orient the
board as follows:
     1. The mounting bracket to the right and the bus connector
        tab facing downward.
     2. The bus-connector is 3 inches long by 1/3 inch deep and
       protrudes from the bottom right of the board.
     3. The DIP-Switch pack (SW2) which sets IO addresses will be
       located on the right edge of the board adjacent to the
       mounting bracket. The mounting bracket has a rectangular
       cutout to also allow access to the switch levers from the
       outside of the computer. The DIP Switch Pack (SW1) which
       configures the Analog Expansion Bus (used for telephony
       applications) is located along the top right edge of the
       module, between the 20-pin AEB header (J3) and the
       mounting bracket.
     4. The two speaker jacks will be located on the upper right
       hand side of the board and protruding through the
       mounting bracket. The one closest to the DIP Switch Pack
       is the monaural jack (J2), and the one closest to the
       upper edge of the board is the stereo jack (J1). These
       jacks are enclosed in a metal EMI Shield.
     5. The board will fit into a three-quarter-length, full-
       height (8, 16 or 32 bit) slot in your PC or PC compatible
       computer.
       
External Speaker:
     An external loudspeaker comes with your DECtalk PC. The
loudspeaker enclosure is  4 inches  by 5 inches  by  2 inches.
Orient the loudspeaker with the speaker grill facing forward.
There is a standard  1/8 inch subminiature stereo headphone jack
on the upper left-hand side of the speaker and a volume control
on the middle right-hand side. Attached to the speaker on the
lower left-hand side is a 36 inch long cable which terminates in
a 1/8 inch monaural phone plug.

Note: The audio outputs contain self-protection circuitry which
guards against shorts or overloads. No external signals should be
applied to these outputs. The "ground" side of the audio outputs
is connected to the computer chassis. Connecting these outputs to
external equipment which has one side of the audio connected to
ground may cause electrical noise to be coupled into the audio
signal. If this occurs, it will be necessary to utilize an audio
isolation transformer between the DECtalk PC output and the
grounded external equipment. Such transformers are inexpensive
and can be purchased at most consumer electronics stores.

Installing the DECtalk PC Card.
The installation is a two-part process.

          Part 1 is installing the DECtalk PC card into an
               available option slot in your PC.
               
          Part 2 is installing the DECtalk software onto your
               hard disk.
               
               
Tools Needed.
         There are many different types of personal computers.
It is beyond the scope of this manual to describe all types of
designs. If you have a standard IBM personal computer, you will
need only a flathead screwdriver. If you have other PC-compatible
systems, you may need other tools, (e.g.,  5 millimeter hex
wrench  for Compaq computers or a phillips head screwdriver for
some others). Refer to the User's Guide supplied with your
computer for more information.

Note: Prior to performing any installation of the DECtalk PC
board, turn the power to the computer OFF and unplug the power
cord from the wall outlet. Failure to do so may result in serious
injury to yourself or damage to your computer.


Installing the DECtalk PC card.
Perform the following steps to install the DECtalk PC card in
your personal computer:


1.       Remove all diskettes from the diskette drives.
2 .      Set the power switch on the system unit  to OFF.
3.       Unplug the power cord from the wall socket.
4.       Remove all cables from the rear of the system unit.
5.      Remove the system unit cover. Since PCs tend to be
        slightly different, simply follow the instructions which
        came with your personal computer. Many PCs contain
        screws at the back of the system unit which must be
        removed. Most covers will then slide out towards the
        front.
6.      With the system cover off, remove the screw from the
        bracket of an available option slot on the rear panel.
        Save the screw for later use. Remove the bracket insert.
        
Note: The DECtalk PC board has a switch pack that lets you
determine how the DECtalk PC board interfaces with the PC.  This
switch pack is already set to correspond to the needs of most
users. The default setting, I/O Address 250, may already meet
your computer's requirements. If you suspect that it does not,
you may have to change the setting of the DECtalk PC board or
other installed options. Refer to Section 3 on Configuration.

7.      Install your DECtalk card in an available slot as you
        would any other similar-sized card, with the mounting
        bracket  toward the rear of the unit and the bus
        connector  pointing down. Firmly press the card in place
        until it is correctly seated.  Replace the screw. The
        bracket should be flush with the rear  mounting panel.
8.      Replace the system unit cover. Replacing the system
        cover is the reverse of removing it. Follow the
        instructions which came with your personal computer.
9.      Reconnect any other cables (e.g., keyboard, mouse, etc.)
        to the rear of the system unit.
10.     Connect the power cable to the rear of the system unit
        and plug the other end into the wall outlet.
11.     If using the supplied monaural speaker, connect the 1/8
        inch phone plug on the speaker cable to the connector
        nearest the square cutout on the DECtalk PC mounting
        bracket at the rear of the DECtalk PC card located at
        the rear of the PC. Make sure the volume is ON by
        turning the volume control knob on the speaker in a full
        clockwise direction. See Section 3 for information about
        using user-supplied external speakers.
        
The DECtalk PC board is now installed in your system unit.

Caution: For safe operation, be sure there are no missing slot
covers when you complete the installation.

Installing DECtalk PC Software.
Note: Your system must be running DOS Version 3.3 or later.

Please follow all instructions on the audio cassette. Sighted
users will also be prompted by instructions which appear on the
screen.


     1. Turn your PC ON.
        
     2. Choose a disk drive which takes a 3 and 1/2 inch
        diskette. In most systems, this will be either Drive A
        or Drive B.  Insert the diskette labeled DECtalk PC2 V4.2C
        into the appropriate disk drive (either Drive A: or
        Drive B:). Change the drive prompt to either A: or B:.
     3. At the DOS prompt, type INSTALL and press Enter as
        follows:
        
        A:\> INSTALL  (Press Enter).
     
        In a few moments, you will hear rising tones.  The
        following menu will appear on the screen:
        
                 Use the Standard Installation.
                               or
            Be prompted for the Custom Installation.
                                


  SELECTING STANDARD OR CUSTOM INSTALLATION.
You now have a choice of using either the Standard Installation
or Custom Installation.

The Standard Installation  creates a subdirectory called DECTALK2
and installs all necessary files in that subdirectory. It also
adds DECtalk PC startup commands to the AUTOEXEC.BAT file and
assigns the default I/O base address of 250.

The Custom Installation allows you to select the drive, the name
of the subdirectory, the I/O base address that the board is set
to and whether the AUTOEXEC.BAT should be updated.

Note: It is recommended that you use the Standard Installation.


  STANDARD INSTALLATION.
In the Standard installation rising tones mean  PRESS the Enter key.
          
To use the Standard installation, at the installation screen
menu, press Enter. Follow the tone prompts and after a few
minutes, the installation will be complete.  When the
installation is complete, you will hear the following message:

              "DECtalk PC Version 4.2 is running."
                                
                                
                                
  CUSTOM INSTALLATION.
If you have impaired vision and choose not to use the Standard
installation,  you will need the help of a sighted person as the
Custom Installation utility will not work with a screen reader.

To use Custom installation, at the installation screen menu,
press the down arrow once and then press ENTER.

NOTE: Make sure that the I/O address you select corresponds with
the I/O address dip switch setting on the board. Refer to Section
3 for more information.


From this point on, follow all instructions and respond to the
menu selections as requested.  When the installation is complete,
you will hear the following message:
								 

              "DECtalk PC Version 4.2 is running."
                                
                                
WARNING: If you are using the DOSSHELL or WIN command in your
AUTOEXEC.BAT file, the Install utility cannot place the DECtalk
initialization commands before the DOSSHELL or WIN command.
Therefore, when using DOSSHELL or Windows, you must manually
place the DOSSHELL or WIN command as the last command in the
AUTOEXEC.BAT file.

DT DEMO.
A demo program, named DT DEMO, can be started by typing DTDEMO
and pressing the Enter key  after a successful install. The user
is given the option to hear the menus by pressing the Enter key
or to not hear them by pressing the Space bar. DT DEMO may be
used to read the release note file named README.TXT. Refer to the
next paragraph, README FILE, for the necessary procedure.

NOTE: Do not attempt to use DT DEMO when a screen access program
is loaded. Unpredictable results will likely occur if you do.
With both programs loaded, they each are unaware of the other's
presence and inadvertently "step" on each other.

README File
The DECtalk PC Installation diskette contains a file named
README.TXT. Read this file as soon as you are able to as it
contains the latest information regarding the product. The file
can be read after the installation of the DECtalk PC is completed
in either of two ways:

1. From DT Demo, select the "L" option (load a file to DECtalk)
and at the prompt for the file name, type README.TXT and press
the Enter key.

2. Changing to your DECtalk subdirectory (default is DECTALK) and
type: COPY README.TXT COM4.

Using DECtalk PC
     Your DECtalk PC is now ready to use. Refer to the next
     section, Using DECtalk PC, for specifics.
     
Default COM and LPT port trapping.
The DECtalk's DOS memory-resident program (TSR) can emulate a COM
and a LPT port. This allows the use of the DOS COPY and PRINT
commands, respectively, to send text to the DECtalk to speak.
The default communications ports are COM4 and LPT3.

NOTE: The use of COM4 by the DECtalk PC will NOT in any way
interfere with the use of COM2 by other options. The DECtalk does
not actually use COM or LPT hardware. Its driver only emulates
them so that opertaing system functions like COPY and PRINT can
be used to send files to the DECtalk to speak. So, when the
command COPY MY_FILE.TXT COM4 is entered, the DECtalk driver
traps the command and sends the text file to the DECtalk rather
than to a real COM port. It doesn't require any additional system
resources like IRQ's or I/O Adresses to do this.  So there isn't
any conflict with actual COM or LPT hardware on your PC.

To change the communication port trapping, see Section 3,
Configuration.

End of Section 1.

                           Section 2.
                       Using DECtalk PC2.
                                
The DECtalk PC speech synthesizer is supported by a number of
third-party software application packages. It also can be used to
speak text files sent to it by using the DOS COPY and PRINT
commands.

  Third-party applications.
There are a number of application software packages which support
the DECtalk PC synthesizer. The primary applications are screen-
access, book reading and learning programs. These applications
usually contain features for controlling the attributes of the
DECtalk PC such as speaking voice, rate and volume. The
application run under MS-DOS, Windows or OS/2. A list of
applications can be downloaded from the DECtalk BBS, telephone
number 508 467-3816. The file name is DT_APPS.TXT. The list can
also be obtained by writing to:

     DECtalk Applications
     Digital Equipment Corporation
     200 Forest Street,  MRO1-1/L31
     Marlboro, MA  01742
     
     
Please refer to the application vendors' documentation for
installing and using the application as well as for setting the
DECtalk parameters.


  Using DOS Commands.
There are a number of ways to output and listen to text. You may
copy a text file to a serial COM port, "print" a text file to a
parallel LPT printer port, or use a terminal emulator to type
directly to the DECtalk using the PC as if it were a terminal
connected to a COM port.


  Copying to a Com Port.
There are a number of ways to copy text files to DECtalk.  You
first need to create a text file using a text editor or a word
processor that can create text files and save that file.

NOTE: The synthesizer requires that all text be terminated by a
period, exclamation mark, question mark, or comma for it to start
speaking immediately.

Then use the COPY command to copy the text file to the COM port
the DECtalk driver is emulating. For example, to listen to a file
called dectalk.txt, type the following:
        COPY dectalk.txt  COM4  (Press Enter).

The DECtalk driver will "trap" the command and redirect the text
file to the DECtalk on thr PC bus which will then speak the text
in the file.

    Printing to an LPT Parallel Printer Port.
You can also have the DECtalk "speak" an ASCII text file by
"printing" it to an emulated LPT parallel printer port. The
default port is LPT3. Again, create a text file using a text
editor and save that file. Then use the PRINT command to send the
text file to a printer port. For example, to listen to a file
called dectalk.txt, type the following:

          PRINT dectalk.txt LPT3 (Press Enter).

The DECtalk driver will "trap" the PRINT command and redirect the
text file to the DECtalk on the PC bus which will then convert
the text file to speech.


  Using a Terminal Emulator.
There are a number of comm or terminal emulator software packages
such as KERMIT which will support BIOS calls to a COM or LPT
device. Again, a user can create an ASCII text file using a text
editor and then run the comm package to transmit the file to the
emulated COM or LPT port that the DECtalk PC program is set to
receive. (The default ports are COM4 and LPT3.)  In terminal
emulation mode, the comm packages will allow you to type directly
to a COM or LPT port.

Note:     The number of the COM port or LPT port will differ
depending upon the configuration.

  Using a Word Processor.
If you are using a screen access program, using a word processor
should not be a problem. However, you cannot send a word
processing file in its internal file format using the DOS PRINT
or COPY methods described above. The file would first have to be
converted to an ASCII text or print file before it could be sent
to the DECtalk PC.  Refer to the word processing application
documentation for specific conversion details.

  Using Digitized Sound Files
DECtalk PC can play prerecorded 8 bit mono digitized sound files.
The files must be in the Creative Labs, Ltd.  Sound Blaster VOC
or Microsoft WAV format. The PLAY command in the DECtalk
subdirectory will play the desired file. The format for playing
the file is:
          PLAY sndfile.wav    (press Enter)

Utilities are usually provided with sound cards for creating
Sound Blaster compatible  VOC sound files or for converting other
sound file formats to the VOC format. Refer to the sound card's
user documentation for details.

  Using Headphones.
The DECtalk PC speaker has a 1/8 inch stereo headphone jack
located below the volume control. Headphones with a 1/8 inch
stereo plug may be inserted into the jack. The speaker will be
disconnected when the headphones are plugged in. The volume
control will control the volume to the headphones. If your
headphone has a mono plug or a different size plug, an adapter
which adapts the plug on your headphones to the stereo jack on
the speaker can be purchased from most consumer electronic
stores.

WARNING Turn down the volume control prior to inserting the
headphones. The output level required by the headphones is much
less than that required by the speaker.

  Using External Stereo Speakers.
The audio jack furthest away from the rectangular DIP Switch Pack
access opening on the mounting bracket is designed to connect to
external stereo speakers. Connecting a monaural device to this
jack may cause cessation of output. To use common PC-style stereo
speakers, connect the speaker signal lead to this jack, and
follow the instructions supplied with your stereo speakers.

  Analog Expansion Bus (AEB).
Connector J3 is provided for telephony applications which use the
Dialogic Analog Expansion Bus. Normally, this connector is
unused. Switch SW1 configures this connector, and when the
connector is unused, all switches should be in the UP (away from
the board) position.

  Modifying DECtalk Parameters.
Although most application programs, which support the DECtalk PC,
provide the capability to change DECtalk parameters such as the
speaking voice, rate or volume, it is also possible to modify these
and other parameters via commands which can be inserted into a
text file at the location where they are to take effect. The text
file must then be sent to the DECtalk.

WARNING: The use of DECtalk commands embedded in the text may
cause conflicts when used with application programs which provide
support for the DECtalk. The application may not pass the
commands embedded in the text file to the DECtalk, the embedded
commands may be spoken or the DECtalk may stop speaking. Also
most applications which support the DECtalk also control the same
parameters and will more than likely override some if not all the
commands that are embedded in the text. It is highly recommended
that if you are using an application such as a screen access
program that you use the facilities of the application to change
the DECtalk parameters.

The file COMMAND.TXT in the subdirectory where the DECtalk files
are located (the default is DECTALK) provides information on how
to insert these commands as well as information on the
programming interface to the DECtalk.

Product Support.
  Product Warranty.
This product is warranted by DIGITAL for one year from date of
purchase. When you receive your DECtalk PC, please fill out and
return your Warranty Registration. This will also ensure that you
are notified in the event of updates.

  Bulletin Board Service (BBS).
This product is now being supported by a Bulletin Board Service
(BBS). The purpose of the BBS is to provide customers with on-
line assistance and information. To access the BBS you will need
a file transfer communications program installed on your PC and a
modem connected to it. To reach the BBS, call (508) 467-3806. You
will be prompted by the BBS to provide such information as your
first and last name and a password of your choice in order to
gain access. There will be instructions provided when you log
onto the BBS.

  Post-Sales Support.
If, after completing Chapters 1 2, and  3 of this Guide, the
DECtalk will still not speak its startup message, call the dealer
that you purchased the product from. If you purchased the product
directly from Digital, please call 1-800-354 9000 and select
Option 4 at the telephone prompt. When a support person answers
the phone, please specify that you would like installation
assistance for the DTC07-BA or DECtalk PC.

If the DECtalk speaks its startup message but you are having
problems getting the DECtalk to work with an application that
supports it, such as a screen access program, you should contact
the vendor from whom you purchased the application for
assistance.

  Customer Returns.
If, during the warranty period, you determine that your DECtalk
PC requires service, please contact the Customer Return Center at
(800) 225-5385. Please refer to the product as either DTC07-BA or
54-24305.    If you purchased the product directly from Digital
Equipment Corporation, you will be asked to provide your "DEC
number" which is on the shipping paperwork.  If you received the
product from a reseller, you will need to contact the reseller
first for the applicable "DEC number" or to arrange the return
through them.

Application Development.
If you are a programmer or developer who wishes to learn more
about how DECtalk works, a Technical Reference Manual and a
Developer's Toolkit diskette can be obtained by downloading the
file TECH_REF.ZIP and TOOLKIT.ZIP from the DECtalk BBS, 508-467-
3806. Copies can also be obtained by writing to DECtalk
Developer's Toolkit, Digital Equipment Corporation, 200 Forest
Street,  MRO1-1/L31, Marlboro, MA  01752.

  DTDEMO.
The DTDEMO source program files DTDEMO.C, DTTSR.H and DTDEMP.H
and DTCOMMON.C are included with the distribution to provide an
example of using the DECtalk PC programming interface.


Assistive Technology Reseller
If you are interested in becoming a value-added reseller for the
DECtalk PC, please send a letter to Assistive Technology Group,
Digital Equipment Corporation, 200 Forest Street, MRO1-1/DL31,
Marlboro, MA  01752, Attention: DECtalk PC Reseller Program.

End of Section 2.
                                
                            SECTION 3.
                          Configuration.
Factory Defaults.
The DECtalk PC card is configured at the factory and should
normally not require modifications on the part of the user.

If you have installed the DECtalk PC card and software according
to the instructions provided in Section One, the board should
speak the startup message.  If the board fails to respond or if
an error message is encountered, the switch settings may have to
be changed to resolve conflicts with other installed options.

It is important that you have the installation/operating manuals
for the other devices installed in your system to be able to
determine the optional setting parameters.

Startup Problems.
If after installing the DECtalk PC option card your system or
another device fails to operate or system errors are reported,
there may be a conflict with other installed options e.g., a
scanner. This will require some adjustments to either the other
options or the DECtalk PC card to eliminate the conflicts.

For instance, if the DECtalk PC board is set to use an I/O
address that another option module uses, your computer or other
device may not operate correctly when you  power up the system.

If the system fails to start then it will be necessary to remove
the DECtalk PC option card and proceed with the DECtalk PC
software installation.  The DECtalk PC module does not have to be
installed in the system to install the software.

If it is necessary to change I/O address assignments,  the
appropriate switch settings are listed in Table 2 of this
section. This change should be done by someone familiar with
configuring PCs.

Note: If changing the DECtalk PC switch settings does not resolve
the conflicts, you may need to remove other option modules from
the computer to identify the conflicting modules.


  Devices No Longer Operate.
If a device such as a CD ROM drive is no longer accessible after
the DECtalk PC is installed it is probably most likely due to an
I/O Address conflict between the DECtalk PC and the particular
device. The most obvious solution is to be sure that each device
has its own unique I/O Address.
     
  DECtalk Start-up.
When the DECtalk software starts up, it checks for a DECtalk
board at the Standard or Custom I/O Address. When it finds it, it
initializes it and proceeds with loading the required software
into memory on the DECtalk board.

  I/O Address Conflicts.
Most devices, such as SCSI II adapters, cannot tolerate other
devices reading an I/O address it is using. So if the adapter is
using one of the possible I/O Addresses that the DECtalk can also
use, the adapter will probably no longer be accessible. For
instance, if a CD ROM drive is connected to the SCSI adapter
which is set to use I/O Address 340 you will no longer be able to
access the CD ROM if the DECtalk PC is  also set to use I/O
Address 340.

  Hidden Use of I/O Addresses.
Many devices use I/O addresses that are not apparent from reading
their manuals. For instance, some SCSI II adapters use and I/O
address as a "mailbox". This "mailbox" I/O address is hardly ever
listed in the adapters documentation. We have found that I/O
address 240 is often used for this purpose.

Other adapters will list the base I/O address they use, but will
fail to indicate the "range" of the addresses used which may flow
over into the next available range. For instance, a sound card
adapter lists an I/O range of 220 or 240. In fact the adapter
uses 220 and part of 230 or 240 and part of 250. The unsuspecting
reader of their manual would think that 230 or 250 were
available.

So even when you may think that you have set all the adapters in
your PC to exclusive I/O Address settings you may still in fact
have a conflict. If the adapter that doesn't work has an I/O
address that is adjacent to another adapter, then changing it so
that it is at least two addresses away may resolve the conflict.
     
  DIP-Switch Pack.
Settings are done by a DIP-switch pack on the extreme lower right-
hand section of the board as described in Section 1.  The switch
pack lets you determine how the DECtalk PC board operates and its
default settings  already  correspond to the needs of most
configurations. If your DECtalk board is speaking, these settings
meet your computer's requirements and nothing else needs to be
done. Your DECtalk is ready to use.  However, if the board is not
speaking,  you may need to change the settings of the switch pack
on the DECtalk PC board.  This is because the DECtalk PC board is
set to use an I/O (base) address that another installed option
module uses.  If conflicts exist, consult your PC option manuals
and select new non-conflicting settings.

  Changing Switch Settings.
The configuration switches may be accessed in the following ways:
   1. With the board installed in your computer: through the
      rectangular access hole in the mounting bracket
  2. With the board NOT installed: Place the board on a flat
      surface with the bus-connector  to your lower right.  The
      bank of DIP-switches is 1 in. long by 1/3 in.  deep and is
      located in the lower right-hand corner of the card.

There are 6 switches arranged in a vertical row with switch 1
closest to the bus connector (lower) and switch 6 closest to the
audio jacks (upper).  The switches are numbered. Switches set to
the UP position are ON even though the marking on the switch pack
says OPEN(with UP being away from the board). The factory default
settings are shown in Table 1. If no other options are installed
in your computer,  the default settings should be satisfactory.
Otherwise, adjust the DIP-switches using a hard-tipped item such
as a ball-point pen.  Never use a lead pencil as the point may
break and become lodged in the switch pack.

NOTE: After changing the I/O address switch setting, reinstall
the DECtalk software using the Custom Installation and select the
corresponding I/O address. An alternative procedure is to edit
the DT.BAT file in the DECTALK subdirectory to set the -b switch
to the new I/O address.

Example: For I/O address 350, DT.BAT looks like:
     dt_driv -r >NUL
     dt_driv -c -l -b 350
     dt_load kernel.sys dtpcdic.dic lts.exe ph.exe cmd.exe
     usa.exe
     dtstart
     
  TABLE 1. -  DEFAULT SETTINGS, I/O Address 250.

Switch.          Default Setting.  
1               OFF              
2               ON               
3               OFF              
4               ON               
5               OFF              
6               OFF              

  Table 2.- IO Address Switch Settings.
     IO    SW2-6  SW2-5  SW2-4  SW2-3  SW2-2  SW2-1
   Address
     
    200     Off    Off    Off    Off    Off    Off
    208     Off    Off    Off    Off    Off    On
    210     Off    Off    Off    Off    On     Off
    218     Off    Off    Off    Off    On     On
    220     Off    Off    Off    On     Off    Off
    228     Off    Off    Off    On     Off    On
    230     Off    Off    Off    On     On     Off
    238     Off    Off    Off    On     On     On
    240     Off    Off    On     Off    Off    Off
    248     Off    Off    On     Off    Off    On
    250     Off    Off    On     Off    On     Off
    258     Off    Off    On     Off    On     On
    260     Off    Off    On     On     Off    Off
    268     Off    Off    On     On     Off    On
    270     Off    Off    On     On     On     Off
    278     Off    Off    On     On     On     On
    280     Off    On     Off    Off    Off    Off
    288     Off    On     Off    Off    Off    On
    290     Off    On     Off    Off    On     Off
    298     Off    On     Off    Off    On     On
    2A0     Off    On     Off    On     Off    Off
    2A8     Off    On     Off    On     Off    On
    2B0     Off    On     Off    On     On     Off
    2B8     Off    On     Off    On     On     On
    2C0     Off    On     On     Off    Off    Off
    2C8     Off    On     On     Off    Off    On
    2D0     Off    On     On     Off    On     Off
    2D8     Off    On     On     Off    On     On
    2E0     Off    On     On     On     Off    Off
    2E8     Off    On     On     On     Off    On
    2F0     Off    On     On     On     On     Off
    2F8     Off    On     On     On     On     On
    300     On     Off    Off    Off    Off    Off
    308     On     Off    Off    Off    Off    On
    310     On     Off    Off    Off    On     Off
    318     On     Off    Off    Off    On     On
    320     On     Off    Off    On     Off    Off
    328     On     Off    Off    On     Off    On
    330     On     Off    Off    On     On     Off
    338     On     Off    Off    On     On     On
    340     On     Off    On     Off    Off    Off
    348     On     Off    On     Off    Off    On
    350     On     Off    On     Off    On     Off
    358     On     Off    On     Off    On     On
    360     On     Off    On     On     Off    Off
    368     On     Off    On     On     Off    On
    370     On     Off    On     On     On     Off
    378     On     Off    On     On     On     On
    380     On     On     Off    Off    Off    Off
    388     On     On     Off    Off    Off    On
    390     On     On     Off    Off    On     Off
    398     On     On     Off    Off    On     On
    3A0     On     On     Off    On     Off    Off
    3A8     On     On     Off    On     Off    On
    3B0     On     On     Off    On     On     Off
    3B8     On     On     Off    On     On     On
    3C0     On     On     On     Off    Off    Off
    3C8     On     On     On     Off    Off    On
    3D0     On     On     On     Off    On     Off
    3D8     On     On     On     Off    On     On
    3E0     On     On     On     On     Off    Off
    3E8     On     On     On     On     Off    On
    3F0     On     On     On     On     On     Off
    3F8     On     On     On     On     On     On
     
  
  CHECKING BOARD FUNCTION.
If all settings are correct, the board should be able to speak
its startup message.  To make sure the board is working properly,
type the following test command:

                        C:\DECTALK\DTSTART   (Press Enter).

   You will hear  the following message:

                        "DECtalk PC Version 4.2 is running."

Note: It may be necessary to remove other option boards in the
system unit to reduce the potential for conflict.

If the board does not speak after adjusting the switch settings,
check to see that the PC is powered on, the speaker is plugged
into the rear of the DECtalk PC card, and the volume is turned
full on(clockwise).

If the board still does not speak, refer to Product Support in
Section 1.

Customization of the startup message.
The command DTSTART in the DT.BAT file makes the DECtalk PC speak
its startup message. You can customize your startup message by
inserting a new message in quotes after the DTSTART command. For
example:

          DTSTART "My own personal message".

To remove the startup message completely, simply remove the
DTSTART command from the DT.BAT file.


Default Communications and Printer Ports:
The default "emulated" communications port for the DECtalk PC
memory resident program is COM4 and the default "emulated"
printer port is LPT3. To change these these settings, at the DOS
prompt, do the following:

1. Edit the DT_DRIV command string for the DECtalk PC program.
The  INSTALL program puts this in the DT.BAT file.

2. Edit the DT.BAT file and find the line which reads  DT_DRIV -C
-L -B 250.

3. Change the port numbers to the new  port using the following
table:


               Comm Ports (-C)          Printer Ports (-L)
               
               BLANK = COM4        BLANK = LPT3
                          0 = COM1                0 = LPT1
                          1 = COM2,                    1 = LPT2
                          2 = COM3,                    2 = LPT3
                          3 = COM4.
               
For example, to change the communications port to COM3 and the
printer port to LPT2, you would type the  following:

                   DT_DRIV -C  2  -L 1 -B 250.
                                
NOTE: The -B switch is used for setting the I/O address for the
DECtalk PC and should not be changed from the value it is set to
when modifying COM or LPT port trapping settings. The default
value is 250.

4. Save the changes to the file.

5. Reboot the system.

Rnd of Section 3.
                                
                           SECTION 4.
                       Owner's Information.
                                
This section contains general information about the DECtalk PC2.
This information is for reference purposes.


The DECtalk PC2.
Video terminals display information from a computer on a screen.
Printers display the same information on paper. These devices
allow you to communicate with computers through the sense of
sight. The DECtalk PC is another device that allows you to
communicate with computers. However, this device speaks
information in highly intelligible synthesized English. It allows
you to communicate naturally through the senses of  listening
(the user) and speaking (DECtalk PC).

DECtalk PC is a PC option board  and a set of software components
which, when properly loaded on a DOS personal computer, will
provide synthesized voice output of ASCII text sent to it by
other PC software applications such as "screen access" programs.
The interface to DECtalk PC for both commands and text is via a
memory-resident DOS driver. DECtalk PC is designed to read
standard ASCII text in an intelligible and natural manner. The
DECtalk PC board, when installed in a PC or PC-compatible
computer and used in conjunction with application software such
as a screen-reader, allows you to create your own talking
workstation.  You can hear the text you have stored in a file or
any text which appears on your computer screen.

Note:   The screen access software application must specifically
state that it supports the DECtalk PC voice synthesizer option.
Furthermore, not all of the capabilities of DECtalk PC may be
utilized by the software application program which controls the
DECtalk PC DOS device driver.

DECtalk PC Board Description.
     The DECtalk PC board is a high-quality text-to-speech
synthesizer. The board provides hardware and firmware components
which, when coupled with special speech  synthesis software,
offer highly intelligible and natural speech.
Hardware Requirements:
          IBM PC, IBM XT, IBM AT or 100% compatible personal
          computer (PC), ISA, or EISA (8, 16, or 32) bit bus,
          three-quarter-length option slot for the DECtalk PC
          option  board.
          
          One diskette drive capable of reading 3.50 inch (1.4
          mega byte) diskettes to load the distribution media.
          
          A minimum of 20 Kbytes of system memory available to
          run the DECtalk  PC DOS driver.
          
          A hard disk drive with at least 1Mbyte  of available
          space.
          
          A system power supply that provides at least 130 watts.
          
          A DECtalk PC2 Speech Synthesizer option board.
          
          
Software Requirements:

Note: The minimum hardware/software requirements for any future
version of this product may be different from the specific
requirements for the current version.

Distribution Media:
     3 and 1/2 inch Diskette (1.4MB).

Operating System Requirements:
     DOS Version 3.3, 4.0x, 5.0, 6.0

Physical:
     The DECtalk PC board is a three-quarter-length (8.5 inch)
IBM PC card that uses the 8-bit bus connector with no "overhang"
interference.

Power Supply Requirements:
     The DECtalk PC board draws approximately 2.5W. However,
because most systems will contain a number of other boards, it is
recommended that the power supply on the system be a minimum of
130W.

Memory:
     20Kbytes of memory is required to run the DECtalk PC device
driver.

Ordering Information:
     The software license, media and documentation are bundled
with the  DECtalk PC option board.

Software Licensing:
     This software product is furnished under licensing
provisions of  Digital's Standard Terms and Conditions. For more
information about Digital's licensing terms and policies, contact
your local DIGITAL office.

Post-Sales Support.
        If, after completing Sections 1, 2 and 3 of this Manual,
the DECtalk will not speak its startup message, call the dealer
that you purchased the product from.  If you purchased the
product directly from Digital, please call 1-800-354-9000  and
select Option 4 5at the telephone prompt. When a support person
answers the phone, please specify that you would like
installation assistance for the DTC07-BA or DECtalk PC.

        If the DECtalk speaks its startup message but you are
having problems getting the DECtalk to work with an application
that supports it, such as a screen access program, you should
first contact the vendor from whom you purchased the application
for assistance.


Product Warranty:
     Warranty for this product is a one year return-to-factory
for parts and labor. When you receive your DECtalk PC, please
fill out and return your Warranty Registration. This will also
ensure that you are notified in the event of updates.

Customer Returns.
     If, during the warranty period, you determine that your
DECtalk PC requires service, please contact the Customer Return
Center at (800) 225-5385. Please refer to the product as either
DTC07-BA or 54-24305. If you purchased the product directly from
Digital Equipment Corporation, you will be asked to provide your
DEC number which is on the shipping paperwork.  If you received
the product from a reseller, you will need to contact the
reseller first for the applicable DEC number or to arrange the
return through them.

End of file.
