 
 
DECtalk PC VERSION 4.2 UPGRADE INSTALLATION. 
 
INTRODUCTION:	This file will describe the procedures for 
upgrading your DECtalk PC software to Version 4.2B. In 
addition, Section 2 describes the procedure for removing the 
BIOS chip from some older DECtalk PC boards.  

This upgrade, V4.2B, has been approved by most Screen Reading and
File Reading applications. We have performed extensive testing
with the developers of the Screen Reading Applicatins to
provide a 'bug free' upgrade.  However, we can not 
guarentee that this upgrade is 'bug free'.

The DECtalk PC does not yet support IBM's Screen Reader/2.
There is no driver for OS/2 at this time.

NOTE: The procedure described in Section 2. will ONLY be 
required if you have an older DECtalk PC (e.g. running V4.0 
software) and are having problems with installing the 
DECtalk PC into your PC or with a particular configuration 
of option cards. The board change will also free up 32KB of 
upper memory on your PC. 
 
 
SECTION 1.  Installing DECtalk PC Version 4.2 Upgrade. 
 
NOTE: This upgrade will NOT modify your AUTOEXEC.BAT file. 
 
The following steps should be followed: 
 
1. Turn on your PC. 

2. Prior to installing this Beta test software the DECtalk command
lines must be removed from the AUTOEXEC.BAT file. The lines are
usually at the end of the file and look like this:

	CD \DECtalk
	DT_DRIV -r >nul
	DT_CONF
	DT_DRIV -c 
	DT_LOAD Kernel.sys cmd.exe ph.exe lts.exe dtpc.exe
	DT_start

3. Choose a disk drive which takes either a 3 1/2 inch or 
5 1/4 inch diskette. In most systems, this will be either 
Drive A or drive B. Insert the diskette labeled DECtalk PC 
V4.2-Diskette 1 into the appropriate disk drive (either 
drive A or drive B). Change the drive to either A: or B: 
 
4. At the DOS prompt, type INSTALL and press enter. As 
follows: 
 
		A:\>INSTALL (Press ENTER) 
 
 
	In a moment, you will hear rising tones. The following 
menu will appear on the screen: 
 
	Do the install using all the defaults. 
 
			or 
 
	Be prompted for installation variables. 
 
 
 You now have a choice of using either the DEFAULT 
INSTALLATION or VARIABLE INSTALLATION. It is recommended 
that you use the default installation and it is described 
here. If you want to use the variable installation please 
refer to the DECtalk PC User Guide.  
 
DEFAULT INSTALLATION. 
 
 In the default installation, rising tones mean PRESS ENTER 
and falling tones mean CHANGE THE DISKETTE (5 1/4 inch 
diskettes only) and PRESS ENTER. After a few moments the 
installation will be complete. When the installation is 
complete you will hear the following message: 
 
	"DECtalk PC Version 4.2B is running". 
 
 
Restart your system and the upgrade will be completed. 
 
 
REMOVING THE BIOS ROM I C CHIP. 
 
The procedure for removing the BIOS ROM chip from its I C 
socket is as follows: 
	  
1. Set the power switch on the system unit to OFF. 
 
2. Unplug the power cord from the wall socket. 
 
3. Remove the system cover. Since PCs tend to be 
slightly different, simply follow the instructions which 
came with your PC. 
 
4. With the cover off, remove the screw from the 
bracket on the DECtalk PC module. 
	 
5. Unplug the speaker from the back of the system. 
Remove the module by firmly grasping the module and pulling 
it straight up and out. 
 
6. Place the DECtalk PC module down on a flat working 
surface with the bus-connector to your lower right. The BIOS 
ROM will be located in the lower right hand conner of the 
module. With a large flat blade screw driver placed under the 
edge of the BIOS ROM rock the edge of the screw driver under 
it until the BIOS ROM lifts off the module. Instead of using 
a flat blade screw driver a letter opener could be used. 
 
7. Then locate the bank of DIP-switches, which is 1 
inch long by 1/3 inch deep and is located in the lower 
right-hand conner of the module. There are nine switches 
arranged in a horizontal row with switch 1 to the left and 
switch 9 to the right. Switches set to the UP position are 
ON with UP begin towards the center of the module away from 
the lower edge. Set the following switches in the OFF, DOWN 
position. Switch position 1 through 5 and 8 and 9. 
 
8. The DECtalk PC module is now ready to be 
reinstalled. Follow the steps to remove the module in 
reverse. Power up your system to have the change take 
effect.



